src/pages/year-of-professional-development/index.md, before:

---
title: What I learned after a year of professional development [UNFINISHED]
date: "2019-08-09T06:20:32.169Z"
---

If you would have told me last year at this exact time that I'm going to have a full time web developer job in september I would have never believed you. Truth be don't I still don't believe I'm actually geting paid to write code. Over the last year I've learned a thing or two about professional software engineering and I would like to write down some points in hopes of revisiting this post a few years later with maybe a new perspective.

---

## Communication is the most important, but no one can do it correctly. ##

Human beings have been speaking for thousands of years, yet when it comes to communicating about how a new feature should be implemented or a project started, we just lose all of that communication knowledge and things go badly.

In the last year there have obviously been setbacks when I've been developing something with a strict deadline only to find out that some key piece of information has not been passed down to me. I was never blamed for missing a deadline or for fucking up a feature because I didn't know something, but the miscommunication that was happening almost weekly was infuriating. Thankfully I've since gotten used to it and can now handle these stressful situations with a little more ease.

So how do you communicate properly? We even had workshops on the topic that seemed to do very little to help the entire team in the long run. This is probably the single most important and in my eyes not completely solvable problem. Why? In my opinion because of interpretation. How a developer or a manager understands a problem or task is only in **their** head. This becomes a big issue when multiple people are developing the same feature on let say the front-end. Contexts and understandings of the implementation are viewed from different perspectives and soon it all becomes a mess.

To fix this (at least how I decided to fix it) is to sometimes over-communicate, ask as many questions as you need to and probably most importantly: **sticking to the set documentation and specification** that was set either by management or both the development team and management. This way you have a guide for how, what, when and why things should be done. If someone comes to you saying something isn't done right you can easily point them to the spec.

**What about written communication?** We don't use Slack or any other chat service just email and an internal ticket system to know who get's what done. When emailing/messaging someone you should be as specific as possible with your goal or question that you have for them.

Thank you for reading!

[Follow me on Twitter](https://twitter.com/zasuh_).
[Github profile](https://github.com/zasuh).
[LinkedIn just because](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zasuhadolnik/).

Commit message:

Continue to write post about lessons

src/pages/year-of-professional-development/index.md, after:

---
title: What I learned after a year of professional development [UNFINISHED]
date: "2019-08-09T06:20:32.169Z"
---

If you would have told me last year at this exact time that I'm going to have a full time web developer job in september I would have never believed you. Truth be don't I still don't believe I'm actually geting paid to write code. Over the last year I've learned a thing or two about professional software engineering and I would like to write down some points in hopes of revisiting this post a few years later with maybe a new perspective.

---

## Communication is the most important, but no one can do it correctly ##

Human beings have been speaking for thousands of years, yet when it comes to communicating about how a new feature should be implemented or a project started, we just lose all of that communication knowledge and things go badly.

In the last year there have obviously been setbacks when I've been developing something with a strict deadline only to find out that some key piece of information has not been passed down to me. I was never blamed for missing a deadline or for fucking up a feature because I didn't know something, but the miscommunication that was happening almost weekly was infuriating. Thankfully I've since gotten used to it and can now handle these stressful situations with a little more ease.

So how do you communicate properly? We even had workshops on the topic that seemed to do very little to help the entire team in the long run. This is probably the single most important and in my eyes not completely solvable problem. Why? In my opinion because of interpretation. How a developer or a manager understands a problem or task is only in **their** head. This becomes a big issue when multiple people are developing the same feature on let say the front-end. Contexts and understandings of the implementation are viewed from different perspectives and soon it all becomes a mess.

To fix this (at least how I decided to fix it) is to sometimes over-communicate, ask as many questions as you need to and probably most importantly: **sticking to the set documentation and specification** that was set either by management or both the development team and management. This way you have a guide for how, what, when and why things should be done. If someone comes to you saying something isn't done right you can easily point them to the spec.

**What about written communication?** We don't use Slack or any other chat service just email and an internal ticket system to know who get's what done. When emailing/messaging someone you should be as specific as possible with your goal or question that you have for them, but at the same time not write paragraphs to explain something. Short and to the point is what I've learned.

## Usually the simplest solution is the best ##

There have been times when I tried implementing a solution and completely fucking it up by overcomplicating things. I was focusing more on 'using the ES6' way for example instead of just using what I already know to solve it. Simple solutions are always the best.

We have a system where components are these 'widgets' on our front-end. Every component is a widget. At the beginning when a new widget needed to be made I would create a whole new `.js` file and start from scratch. This was an insane approach since pretty much all of the work was already done and I was shooting myself in the foot with this approach. After countless mistakes I made, I saw that just taking features and code from other widgets was the right and more imporantly faster approach. Don't overcomplicate things by doing everything from scratch, because a lot of the time most of the work has already been done.

Also a quick sidenote: a regular `for` loop is usually enough to solve some problem regarding data structures. Sure you have higher order functions, but regular `for` loops are still the simplest way to go.

## Impostor syndrome is real ##

We've all experienced it. I think junior developers are just more prone to it because we can't believe that we are getting paid for feeling like we don't belong.

Every mistake I made and every setback I've experienced has increased my impostor syndrome by like a factor of 10.

Thank you for reading!

[Follow me on Twitter](https://twitter.com/zasuh_).
[Github profile](https://github.com/zasuh).
[LinkedIn just because](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zasuhadolnik/).
